Day 19 - 12:15
==============

OK, let's try this actual typing thing again?  What about Fox in Socks?
The first bit will drill my new sounds, having all the 'x' and 'ch' and
so on.

- 15:00 Fox in Socks

OK, that took a while, and I didn't get very far.  And it was really
lopsided as well.  How about something more general?  Let's try Dusty
and the Fiddlers.

- 25:00 Dusty and the Fiddlers

Man, that was hard.  And there are a lot of things I don't understand.
Some very common pronouns and stuff don't let you spell them out.
Though partly that's me mixing up short and long vowels.  But *why* is
THOT undefined instead of giving you "thought"?  THAUT is way less
intuitive for me.  I definitely need to look up how to interactively add
things to the dictionary.  And...then I deleted the whole thing.
Plover's toggle stroke does bad things in Vim if you're not in insert
mode...  OK, try it again.

- 15:00 Dusty and the Fiddlers.

Sweet.  Got through the first page in 15 minutes flat.  Oh, the feeling
when you write "grandchildren" correctly for the first time.  Especially
the first syllable.  What's that, TKPWRAPBD?  Awkward.  But I imagine
I'll get used to it.

- 20:00 Dusty and the Fiddlers.

Man.  This is ridiculous.  There are *so* many words that there's no way
to spell out, even though the obvious stroke is unused.  You just gave
to memorize the (often totally arbitrary) brief.  This is starting to
really piss me off.

OK, where would I start on fixing this?  Need to parse the Plover
dictionary, of course.  But Plover obviously has Python code for that.
Then parse the CMU Pronouncing Dictionary and use that and the maximum
onset principle to divide words into syllables?  Map steno to
pseudosteno, then use the possible sounds to match it up against the CMU
entries.  If we have a match, it's somewhat phonetic, so put it in a
phonetic dictionary.  Otherwise it's probably a brief, so put it in a
"briefs" dictionary.  That should be a start.  *Then* we can start going
the other way: filter for words that are in the Plover dictionary but
which don't have a set of strokes which match up phonetically.  Use the
CMU pronounciation to make up an ideal phonetic stroke sequence.  If
that's available, add it to a dictionary of phonetic additions.

1:15 today, 13:30 total.
