Day 18 - 11:15
==============

OK, let's get back on track here.  I have all the base phonemes plus
most of the left-hand consonants (not G, X, or Z).  I'm drilling all
words spelled roughly phonetically using only the base phonemes, plus
the single-syllable words using the left-hand-consonants that I have.

- 15:00 all words so far @ 24 WPM.

Funny to think that just the other day I thought it was hard to stroke a
vertical pair with one finger due to the slanted layout of the Zalman.
It's no problem at all now.

So.  I need to learn the right-hand consonants, and the long vowels, and
a bit of punctuation, and I should be able to start actually typing.
I'm aiming for three weeks for that, so I need to get moving.

- 15:00 short-and-long I words @ 11 WPM.

Man, there are a lot of tricky ones in there.  Odd sounds that are
in-between, conflicts like "buyer" (BAOEUR) and "bier" (BEUR), words
that you don't necessarily know how to pronounce like "Tigris"
(Tie-gris, TAOEUG/REUS), and words that look like they should be two
syllables instead of one.  And I had missed a bunch of "-ing" words.  So
it was slow because I was trying to figure out how to stroke certain
words, and going back and removing some words from the list.

But it's pretty cool to be stroking "jive" (SKWRAOEUF) without thinking
too hard about it.  Nine keys at once, but just JIF in your head.

- 15:00 -NMKX words @ 19 WPM.

Plus a couple weird ones like "pulp" and "people" and "couple" just to
keep things interesting.  Also "one" keeps throwing me, though I'm
*almost* to the point where I can see it and automatically think WUN.

----

- 15:00 -NMKX words @ 23 WPM.

Can eye actual Lee type now?

Nope.  Don't know how to do capitals.  Periods are just -P, I think, but
I don't know commas or question marks.  And I obviously don't know how
to get "I" or the "-ly" suffix.  Oh, "-ly" is "HREU".  I was expecting
it to be the long 'i' for some reason.  Let's try that again.

Can I actually type now? Yes, sir? Hmm...yes is spelled without the 's'.
And I didn't know that 'without' was written as 'W'.

Wow, that was hard, and I needed to look up a lot of things.  OK, enough
for one day.

1:00 today, 12:15 total.
