Day 4
=====

I did three 3-minute drills for the right hand this morning:

- index and middle finger keys (not *).
- add the ring finger keys.
- just the index and pinky home keys.

Two or three more sets and I should have the right hand pretty
comfortable.  I'm practicing with a nice slow rhythm, trying to be near
perfect but keeping the timing between strokes pretty even.  And the
speed is slowly creeping up even as I add keys: this last one
(admittedly with less keys) averaged out to just about 100 strokes per
minute.  But it's been hovering around 75.

Yeah...six minutes with the eight right-hand keys is harder.  Still not
quite there yet.  I averaged 76 strokes per minute, but I probably
should have gone a little slower.  I really wish it would track errors,
even if just a count.  I'll have to add that next.  And speed per key
would be awesome as well.

-----

I think if you had adaptive drills which added keys gradually, you could
(well, *I* could) probably get reasonably comfortable with all the keys
in a couple of hours.  It would be fun to make a game.  Of course, the
question with a typing game is how to make it truly interactive rather
than just a pointless graphical wrapper around a completely linear
typing lesson.  Maybe a choose-your-own-adventure story?

And you want to give the user some choice of speed, but not hold them to
absolutely fixed timing.  I was thinking about a horizontally scrolling
space shooter.  You could have several words on screen at once, so the
user has some flex, but can't just skip words they don't like, because
they'll attack you or whatever.  And you can control the overall pace,
and monitor how the user is doing: if they're consistently hitting
everything the moment it appears, you'll speed up a bit.

So to combine the two...maybe the story branches are laid out in space
so they go off in different directions, and you follow the ones you
choose to type.  Oh, this would be a good use for my "Oxygen Trail"
idea: have space in our solar system be colonized, and you fly around
here for a while, then maybe help set up something with one of the outer
planets, then take off to colonize a new solar system.  I think that
could make for an interesting story.
